docs(clickstack): document table tile row-click drilldowns (#6364)
ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs: docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-drilldowns.md

### Build the service inventory {#service-inventory}

On an overview dashboard, add a **Table** tile on your traces source grouped by `ServiceName`. Give it the RED columns that score each service, each one an aliased series:

- `Requests`: count of spans (rate).
- `Errors`: count of spans with an error status.
- `P95 Duration`: the 95th percentile of `Duration`. Set the column's number format to a duration so it reads as `288ms`, not raw nanoseconds.

Order by `Requests` descending so the busiest services sort to the top. This table is the catalog: one row per service, scored by RED.

<Image img={row_click_catalog} alt="Service inventory table with RED columns (Requests, Errors, P95 Duration) for each service, ordered by request volume, above a requests-over-time trend" size="lg"/>

:::tip Lead with the group-by column
By default a table renders its group-by column (here `ServiceName`) on the right, after the series. A catalog reads better with each row's identity first. Open the tile's **Display Settings** and turn on **Display Group By Columns on Left** to move the group-by column to the front.
:::

### Wire up the row click {#wire-dashboard}

> On the inventory table, open **Row Click Action**, select **Dashboard**, and choose **Template** with the value `Service Detail`. Add one filter:

Reviewer: They should probably choose `Service Detail` directly instead of `Template` - it's less fragile, works better for import/export, and template isn't required since it's just a hardcoded single dashboard.

Author: Good call. The worked example now picks `Service Detail` directly from the dashboard list instead of a Template target. I added a line on why: a direct pick is pinned by ID, so it survives renames and dashboard export/import, and it pre-fills the destination's declared filters. The reference section now frames Template as the per-row option. Fixed in 96825ab81.

- **Filters.** Each filter template renders against the row and becomes an `expression IN (value)` condition at the destination. A `Search` action opens `/search` scoped to the chosen source; a `Dashboard` action opens that dashboard. The clicked row's time range carries over in both cases.

:::note Dashboard targets need a matching filter declared
A filter carried into a dashboard only takes effect if the destination dashboard declares a top-level [custom filter](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards#custom-filters) whose expression matches the filter's **Expression**. If no declared filter matches, that value is dropped at click time and the destination opens unfiltered for that expression. This is why the dashboard mode pre-fills the destination's declared filters: match the expression, and the destination dropdown auto-populates with the clicked row's value.
:::

## Validation and limitations {#validation}

- **Table tiles only.** The **Row Click Action** button appears for table tiles, both the chart-builder table and a [SQL-based](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards/sql-visualizations) table. Other tile types do not have a row-click action.

> - **Search targets must be log or trace sources.** Metric and session sources are not offered, and are rejected if set through the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Search targets must be log or trace sources.** Metric and session sources are not offered, since they cannot be viewed on the search page.
```

Author: Applied in 96825ab81.

- **Template names must be unique.** A template target resolves by name, so two sources or two dashboards with the same name cannot be used as a template target.
- **Dashboard targets need a matching declared filter** for a carried value to take effect (see the note above).

> - **Map-attribute group-by needs a SQL alias.** A chart-builder group-by on a map attribute such as `SpanAttributes['http.route']` produces a result column whose name is the raw expression, which cannot be referenced as `{{...}}` in a template. To drill down from such a column, author the tile as a [SQL-based](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards/sql-visualizations) table and give the column an explicit `AS` alias, then reference that alias in the template. A group-by on a plain column such as `ServiceName` needs no alias.

Reviewer: SQL should not be necessary, we can set aliases using the chart builder as well, either a per series alias or `GROUP BY ... AS ...` in the group by input

Author: Good catch. Removed the SQL-tile instruction. The bullet now says to alias the column in the chart builder: add `AS <alias>` in the Group By input (for example `SpanAttributes['http.route'] AS Route`), or use the per-series Alias field, then reference `{{Route}}`. Fixed in 96825ab81.

---
slug: /use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-drilldowns
title: 'Table row-click drilldowns'
sidebar_label: 'Row-click drilldowns'
pagination_prev: null
pagination_next: null
description: 'Turn a table tile into an inspection workflow: click a row to drill into a focused dashboard or the underlying logs and traces, scoped to the clicked row'
doc_type: 'guide'
keywords: ['clickstack', 'dashboards', 'drilldown', 'table', 'row click', 'inspection', 'observability']
---

import Image from '@theme/IdealImage';
import row_click_drawer from '@site/static/images/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-drawer.png';
import row_click_drilldown from '@site/static/images/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-drilldown.png';
import row_click_search_drilldown from '@site/static/images/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-search-drilldown.png';
import row_click_catalog from '@site/static/images/clickstack/dashboards/row-click-catalog.png';

> A table tile is often a **catalog**: one row per service, host, endpoint, or error group, with a few columns that score each one. Row-click actions turn that catalog into an inspection workflow. You scan the catalog to find the row that matters, click it, and ClickStack carries the clicked row's values through as filters, so the destination opens already scoped to that one item with no query to rebuild by hand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A table tile is often a **catalog**: one row per service, host, endpoint, or error group, with a few columns that score each one. Row-click actions turn that catalog into an inspection workflow. You scan the catalog to find the row that matters, click it, and ClickStack carries the clicked row's values through as filters. The destination then opens already scoped to that one item with no query to rebuild by hand.
```

Slight rewording, the sentence just read a bit like a run on to me.

Author: Yeah, splitting it reads better. Done in 7f2e20e8. I also tightened two other sentences on the page with the same run-on shape so it stays consistent.

A click can land in one of two places:

- **another dashboard**, for a focused view of the one item, such as a per-service detail dashboard, or
- **the underlying events** in [Search](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/search), for the logs or traces behind the row.

> Both use cases below start from the same catalog, a service inventory, and drill from it into each destination. Row-click actions apply to table tiles only. They are distinct from the chart [drilldown to search](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards#drilldown-to-search), which opens a context menu when you click a point on a line or bar chart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both use cases below start from the same catalog (a service inventory) and drill from it into each destination. Row-click actions apply to table tiles only. They are distinct from the chart [drilldown to search](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/dashboards#drilldown-to-search), which opens a context menu when you click a point on a line or bar chart.
```
Minor, just read a bit funny to me with the comas there vs an em dash or parenthesis.

Author: Agreed, the parentheses read cleaner there. Applied in 7f2e20e8.

Because `Service Detail` declares a `ServiceName` custom filter, the drawer pre-fills an empty filter for that expression. Fill in its template:

- **Expression**: `ServiceName` (already filled in)
- **Template**: `{{ServiceName}}`

Click **Apply** and save. The clicked row's service now flows into the dashboard's `ServiceName` filter.

### Click a row {#click-dashboard}

Hovering a row reveals a link affordance on the right edge of the table, with a hint describing the action (`Open dashboard "Service Detail"`). Clicking the row opens the `Service Detail` dashboard with its `Service` filter set to the clicked value, so every tile (the RED key figures, the latency percentiles, the per-endpoint breakdown) re-scopes to that one service in a single click.

<Image img={row_click_drilldown} alt="Service Detail dashboard after a row click, with the Service filter set to the clicked service and the RED key figures, latency percentiles, and per-endpoint breakdown all scoped to it" size="lg"/>

</VerticalStepper>

## Jump from a service to its traces {#jump-to-traces}

> Sometimes you do not want another aggregate view, you want the raw events. A **Search** action sends the click to the [Search](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/search) page instead of a dashboard, opening the logs or traces behind the row, already filtered to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes you do not want another aggregate view; you want the raw events instead. A **Search** action sends the click to the [Search](/use-cases/observability/clickstack/search) page instead of a dashboard, opening the logs or traces behind the row, already filtered to it.
```

Minor comma splice and wording.

Author: Good catch, that was a comma splice. Took your wording in 7f2e20e8.
